{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 I\'92m really interested in gender discrepancies and especially Iowa-related data because of my background working in the statehouse there. That culminated in my interest in analyzing salary information in Iowa\'97especially because the state recently welcomed its first female Governor, Kim Reynolds. \
\
Reynolds, of course, makes the same $130,000 salary as her male predecessors. At that point, I could have shrugged off the dataset, but I wanted to dig a little deeper into gender pay and employment across Iowa\'92s public agencies because it\'92s a fairly expansive set. Not all salaries are calculated the same way (annual, biweekly, hourly) so it wasn\'92t quite as straightforward to calculate and rank that. Ultimately, the highest paid public employees are university-related sports coaches, which is fairly intuitive across the state.\
\
I landed on the third concept\'97looking at the number of females and males employed across each department. There are more females than males employed in the Iowa public sector, but certain departments (Department on Aging, for instance) were extremely female-heavy in the whole database, while others like the Department of Corrections were extremely male-heavy historically. \
\
Moving forward with this project, I\'92d be interested in confirming that the departments historically controlled by men had larger budgets. It\'92s not one that I necessarily need to spend too much time with outside of that, but I could see it being a beneficial resource if I were reporting on the statehouse in the future. }